Blockchain (a distributed database) - Satoshi Nakamoto (presumed pseudonym for a person or group of people) published a white paper on 
“BitCoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system” in 2008.:
	Blockchain is the technology that covers digital currency (like Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.). This technology allows digital information to be 
	distributed and decentralized, but can’t be manipulated (immutable). That means each piece of data can only have one owner but many holders 
	of the same data.
	
	The distributed ledger (bahi-khata) technology used in blockchain.
	
	Blockchain cannot process transactions faster because it doesn’t use a centralized infrastructure and also because it uses encryption. 
	The distributed nature of blockchain provides a huge level of trust. The unchangeable property of blockchain and its public availability 
	among its users, whether in a public ledger or a private one, provides transparency. Any user of the system can query transactions on a 
	real-time basis. 
	
	In short, by adopting Blockchain people across the world can say goodbye to the middleman, and dependence on banks, legal agencies, and hackers.
	
	The blockchain is a distributed database of records of all transactions or digital event that have been executed and shared among participating 
	parties. Each transaction verified by the majority of participants of the system. It contains every single record of each transaction.
	
	Blockchain Technology Records Transaction in Digital Ledger which is distributed over the Network thus making it incorruptible (tampering not possible).
	
What is inside a blockchain?
	A blockchain is a chain of blocks connected to each other.
	A block contains data, timestamp, cryptographic hash, cryptographic hash of the data of the previous block (first block which does not store 
	the prev hash is known as genesis block).

Features/Need/Advantage for/of Blockchain:
	Trustless: High degree of trust in business transactions - Blockchain highly restricts fraud and there is no need to trust a third party now 
			   as the records are stored in distributed ledgers.
	Immutability: It means that it is extremely hard to change the data and any change can be easily detected.
	Distributed: The distributed ledger is shared and updated with every incoming transaction among the nodes connected to the Blockchain. All 
				 this is done in real-time as there is no central server controlling the data.
	Transparent: Because every node or participant in Blockchain has a copy of the Blockchain data, they have access to all transaction data. 
				 They themselves can verify the identities without the need for mediators.
	Flexible: Smart Contracts which are executed based on certain conditions can be written into the platform. Blockchain Network can evolve 
			  in pace with business processes.
	Consensus-based: All relevant network participants must agree that a transaction is valid. This is achieved through the use of consensus 
					 algorithms.
	Tighter security: No one can temper with Blockchain Data as it shared among millions of Participant. The system is safe against cybercrimes 
					  and Fraud.
					  Whereas, In current transaction system, if the Central Server like Banks is compromised, whole System is affected 
					  including the participants.
	Time-saving: No central Authority verification needed for settlements making the process faster and cheaper.
	Cost-saving: A Blockchain network reduces expenses in several ways. No need for third-party verification. Participants can share assets 
				 directly. Intermediaries are reduced. Transaction efforts are minimized as every participant has a copy of shared ledger.
	Decentralized: The blockchain network is decentralized which means that there is no central governing authority that will responsible for all 
				   the decisions. Rather a group of nodes makes and maintain the network. Each and every node in the blockchain network has the 
				   same copy of the ledger.
	Secure: All the records in the blockchain are individually encrypted. Using encryption adds another layer of security to the entire process 
			on the blockchain network. Every information on the blockchain is hashed cryptographically which means that every piece of data has a 
			unique identity on the network. All the blocks contain a unique hash of their own and the hash of the previous block. Due to this property,
			the blocks are cryptographically linked with each other. Any attempt to modify the data means to change all the hash IDs which is quite 
			impossible.

Uses of Blockchain Technology:
	Financial Services (Banking/Payments/Asset Management): secure payment facilities for a particular transaction, as it removes third-person dependency.
	Real-estate (Property records): transactions are expensive and lots of paperwork is required. Remove the middleman, more secure & transparent process.
	Legal Fields: Blockchain uses smart contracts to validate the ownership of the documents.
	Personal Identification
	Birth, wedding, and death certificates
	Passports
	Blockchain Healthcare: Health care providers can leverage blockchain to securely store their patients’ medical records.
	Crypto-currency: Bitcoin is one application of the blockchain technology.
	E-Voting
	Copyright and Royalties: Copyright and royalties are a big issue in creative sectors like music, films, etc.
	To make an immutable data backup.
	
Consensus rule/mechanism - For adding data need approval with majority
	Consensus is basically a set of protocols that regulate the blockchain network.
	There are several consensus mechanisms that are used by different blockchains to achieve consensus. For example, Bitcoin uses Proof-of-Work (PoW).

Peer to Peer Network –  A peer to peer network is a distributed application architecture that consists of computing devices connected to each other, 
						without a central server. 

	In centralised networks, the security is dependent on a single entity. If that central server is attacked, the security of 
	the overall network is compromised. But a peer to peer network is more secure as there is no single point of failure.
						
Smart Contracts (or cryptocontract) – Forget smart contract and blockchain for a moment. Think about contracts in general. These contain some 
									  conditions which need to be fulfilled in order for some transaction (eg; money exchange) to occur. For example, 
									  if you are selling me a laptop, a contract will contain that I will be responsible to pay you only if the 
									  laptop works properly. Similarly, smart contracts are pre-requisite conditions which need to be fulfilled for 
									  transactions to happen in a blockchain.
									  
	A Smart Contract (or cryptocontract) is a computer program that directly and automatically controls the transfer of digital assets 
	between the parties under certain conditions. A smart contract works in the same way as a traditional contract while also automatically
	enforcing the contract. Smart contracts are programs written in solidity (language)that execute exactly as they are set 
	up(coded, programmed) by their creators. Just like a traditional contract is enforceable by law, smart contracts are enforceable by 
	code. 
	
	It is basically a digital contract for a blockchain network.
	  
	Difficult to implement: 
		Smart contracts are also complicated to implement because it’s still a relatively new concept and research is still going on 
		to understand the smart contract and its implications fully.
	  
	Example Use cases:  
		Smart contracts provide utility to other contracts. For example, consider a smart contract that transfers funds to party A after 
		10 days. After 10 days, the above-mentioned smart contract will execute another smart contract which checks if the required funds 
		are available at the source account(let’s say party B).
		
		They facilitate the implementation of ‘multi-signature’ accounts, in which the assets are transferred only when a certain 
		percentage of people agree to do so.
		
		Smart contracts can map legal obligations into an automated process.
		
	Applications of Smart Contracts
		Real Estate: Reduce money paid to the middleman and distribute between the parties actually involved. For example, a smart 
		contract to transfer ownership of an apartment once a certain amount of resources have been transferred to the seller’s 
		account(or wallet).
		
		Vehicle ownership: A smart contract can be deployed in a blockchain that keeps track of vehicle maintenance and ownership. 
		The smart contract can, for example, enforce vehicle maintenance service every six months; failure of which will lead to 
		suspension of driving license.
		
		Music Industry: The music industry could record the ownership of music in a blockchain. A smart contract can be embedded 
		in the blockchain and royalties can be credited to the owner’s account when the song is used for commercial purposes. 
		It can also work in resolving ownership disputes.
		
	Features/Need of Smart Contracts:
		The following are some essential characteristics of a smart contract (apart from that mentioned in the Blockchain):
			Deterministic: Smart contracts can only perform functions for which they are designed only when the required conditions 
						   are met. The final outcome will not vary, no matter who executes the smart contract.
			Self-verifying: These are self-verifying due to automated possibilities.
			Self-enforcing: These are self-enforcing when the conditions and rules are met at all stages.
			
	Capabilities of Smart Contracts:
		Accuracy
		Automation: Smart contracts can automate the tasks/ processes that are done manually.
		Speed
		Backup: Every node in the blockchain maintains the shared ledger, providing probably the best backup facility.
		Security
		Savings (Time/Money)
		Manages information: Smart contract manages users’ agreement, and stores information about an application like domain registration, 
							 membership records, etc.
		Multi-signature accounts: Smart contracts support multi-signature accounts to distribute funds as soon as all the parties involved 
								  confirm the agreement.
								  
What is Blockchain Wallet?								  
	A blockchain wallet is a cryptocurrency wallet that is used to manage cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and Ethereum.

What is the difference between Ethereum and Bitcoin?
	Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency. Ethereum is also a cryptocurrency but it contains executable codes and smart contract that are used for making DApps.

What are some different types of Blockchain?
	There are 4 types of blockchain:
	Public (Permissionless) Blockchain: A public blockchain is an open network where anyone can join the network and make transactions. Example- 
										Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin.
	Private (Permissioned) Blockchain: A private blockchain is permissioned blockchain that enforces some restrictions on users. It does not allow 
									   everyone to join the network. Also, the ledger is visible to only permissioned users of the organization. 
									   Example- Hyperledger, Multichain.
	Consortium Blockchain: It is like a private or permissioned blockchain where instead of a single organization, more than one organization 
						   governs the network. Example- Quorum, Corda.
	Hybrid Blockchain: It is a combination of both public and private blockchain. It provides control as well as freedom by using features of 
					   both types of blockchain. Example- Dragonchain.
					   
					   
What is a Decentralized Apps (dApp) and how it is different from Smart Contract?
	DApps are used to interact with a blockchain network or smart contract. It is a decentralized application that is used to implement a 
	particular task or feature using blockchain technology.
	
	Decentralized applications or dApps are distributed, decentralized open-source software applications that run on a decentralized 
	peer-to-peer (P2P) network. Imagine the Twitter application that you have on your phone. You can post anything you want on Twitter but 
	ultimately it’s controlled by a single company that can delete your tweets if they violate community guidelines or some other reason. 
	But if there was a Twitter-type dApp, then it would be decentralized and not owned by any one person. If you posted something there, 
	nobody would be able to delete it including its creators.
	
	Most Common Platforms For Creating dApps: Ethereum (one of them)
	
	Smart contracts define rules for the transaction to be done between two peers. They self execute when the specified condition is met.
	
How blocks are added to a Blockchain?
	Blocks are added to the blockchain through the process of mining. When a transaction is made, the corresponding block is created which 
	needs to be first validated by more than half (51% at least) of the nodes on the network. Once validated, the block is broadcasted to 
	the whole network and then added to the blockchain.
					   
What is the difference between a Blockchain and a database?
	decentralized - centralized
	no central authority - admin
	slow - fast data processing
	More secure and tamperproof	- Less secure and prone to hacks

What are the components of a blockchain architecture?
	Node: User/computer within the blockchain architecture.
	Transaction: It is the smallest building block of the blockchain system.
	Block: It is used for maintaining a set of transactions that are distributed to all the nodes in the network.
	Chain: The sequence of blocks.
	Miners: Specific nodes that perform a block verification process before adding to the blockchain structure.
	Consensus Protocol: Set of rules to carry out blockchain operations.
	
What is a 51% attack?
	It is the situation where malicious miners/ attackers are present in the majority of a blockchain network i.e., more than 50%. 
	They try to prevent new transactions from gaining confirmations and are also capable of reversing transactions that are completed

Double Spend – 
	An act of using the same digital asset (cryptocurrency) twice. Its a common type of attack in blockchains. This type 
	of attack becomes more difficult with increasing members that add the new block to the chain.
	
Disadvantages  using blockchain :
	Data modification is not possible. 
	It requires large storage for a large database. 
	The owner cannot access the private key again if they forget or lose it.
	Police/Government cannot track, no one can track, terrorism, illegal activity
	
Satoshi – The smallest recordable unit of currency in the Bitcoin. Currently, a satoshi is numerically equal to 0.00000001 BTC.

Name some leading open source platforms for developing Blockchain applications.
	Ethereum is one of the popular platforms for building Blockchain-based applications
	
List down some of the extensively used cryptographic algorithms.
	Cryptography uses public and private keys in order to encrypt and decrypt data. In the Blockchain network, 
	a public key can be shared with all the Bitcoin users but a private key (just like a password) is kept secret with the users.
	
	Here are a few popular algorithms:
	SHA - 256
	RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman)
	Triple DES
	
Crypto (Bitcoin) Mining - Bitcoin Mining is the process of verifying bitcoin transactions and storing them in a blockchain(ledger).
NFT - Non-Fungible Token
WEB3 - decentralized internet
